In this video, we will look at the main risks of using AI,
what responsible use means in our daily work,
and the internal policy that defines how we use AI at H&dM.
AI is powerful, but it is not neutral, objective,
or automatically correct.
Every AI output needs human oversight.
Two of the most important risks are bias and hallucination.
Bias means that an AI system may reproduce patterns,
assumptions, exclusions, or stereotypes
from the data it was trained on.
For example, an image model asked to visualize
an "office worker"
might repeatedly show the same age, gender,
or cultural background,
excluding other realities.
Hallucination means that an AI system may produce information
that sounds plausible but is inaccurate,
incomplete, or simply invented.
For example, a language model might invent
a building-code requirement,
a project reference, or a quotation
that does not actually exist.
This is especially important in architectural practice,
where factual, technical,
regulatory, and contextual accuracy matters.
This is why we remain responsible for reviewing, correcting,
adapting, and deciding what is used.
AI should never be a justification for technical mistakes,
poor quality or work that does not align
with H&dM's values and the intent of a project.
Transparency is essential.
We must not present AI-generated or AI-enhanced work
as purely human if it is not.
Another important factor is environmental impact.
AI tools consume computing resources, energy, and water.
This has both financial and environmental consequences.
Responsible use means prompting with intent,
generating only what is useful,
and treating computing resources as shared and finite,
just like physical resources in the office.
There are also legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Client data, project information, and personal data
are protected by laws
such as the EU GDPR, the Swiss FADP, and the EU AI Act.
This means we need to be careful about what information
we enter into AI tools,
especially when working with confidential project material,
client information, contracts, briefs, drawings,
models, or internal reports.
To manage these risks, H&dM has an internal AI Policy
combined with an index of approved AI services.
Within this framework we are safe to use AI
with a level of security
that applies to H&dM standards.
In the next section, we will break this framework down
into six core usage principles:
Human Accountability, Design Quality, Authorship & IP,
Efficient Use, Security and Transparency.